Add Magento Quality Patch package documentation (#7734)
magento/devdocs: src/cloud/project/project-patch.md

  - Cloud
  - Upgrade
---

> The [Magento Quality Patches](https://github.com/magento/quality-patches) and [{{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }}](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches) packages deliver Magento [individual patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/release/policy/#individual-patch), which improve the integration of all {{site.data.var.ee}} versions with Cloud environments and supports quick delivery of critical and custom fixes. You can use these packages to apply, revert, and view general information about all individual patches that are available for Magento.

Reviewer: You are welcome to use reference links, if you like. Most Cloud topics are trending that way.

Author: I'm actually not a fan of reference links. For me, they actually make link maintenance more burdensome.

> The [Magento Quality Patches](https://github.com/magento/quality-patches) and [{{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }}](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches) packages deliver Magento [individual patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/release/policy/#individual-patch), which improve the integration of all {{site.data.var.ee}} versions with Cloud environments and supports quick delivery of critical and custom fixes. You can use these packages to apply, revert, and view general information about all individual patches that are available for Magento.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[{{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }}](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches)  and [Magento Quality Patches](https://github.com/magento/quality-patches) deliver patches to your installed Magento application.

- {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} delivers required patches with critical fixes
- Magento Quality Patches delivers optional, low-impact quality fixes as [individual patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/release/policy/#individual-patch), which do not contain backward incompatible changes.

Both packages improve the integration of all {{site.data.var.ee}} versions with Cloud environments and supports quick delivery of critical, optional, and custom fixes. You can use these packages to apply, revert, and view general information about all individual patches that are available for Magento.
```

{:.bs-callout-tip}
You can also use the [Magento Quality Patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/guides/v2.4/comp-mgr/patching.html#mqp) and [{{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }}](#standalone) packages as stand-alone packages for {{ site.data.var.ce }} and {{ site.data.var.ee }} projects. We recommend using the Magento Quality Patches package for non-Cloud projects.

When you deploy changes to the remote environment, `{{site.data.var.ct}}` uses `magento/quality-patches` and {{ site.data.var.mcp-package }} to check for pending patches and applies them automatically in the following order:

> 1. Apply required patches from Magento included in the {{ site.data.var.mcp-package }} package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Apply required patches from Magento included in the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package.
```

Use variable for "Magento Cloud Patches"  product name instead of GitHub package name to match the reference to Magento Quality Patches in the next step.

1. Apply selected Magento quality patches included in the Magento Quality Patches package.
1. Apply optional and custom patches in the `/m2-hotfixes` directory in alphabetical order by patch name.

{:.bs-callout-info}

> When you update `{{ site.data.var.ct }}` or the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package, the latest required patches are applied automatically the next time you deploy your project. You cannot skip [required patches](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches/tree/develop/patches) during the deployment process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you update `{{ site.data.var.ct }}` or the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package, the latest required patches are applied the next time you deploy your project, or you can deploy them immediately using the `apply patches` CLI command and redeploying your Cloud environment . You cannot skip [required patches](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches/tree/develop/patches) during the deployment process.
```

> You can also apply patches manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Both packages improve the integration of all {{site.data.var.ee}} versions with Cloud environments and support quick delivery of critical, optional, and custom fixes. You can use these packages to apply, revert, and view general information about all individual patches that are available for Magento.

{:.bs-callout-tip}
You can use the [Magento Quality Patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/guides/v2.4/comp-mgr/patching.html#mqp) and [{{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }}](#standalone) packages as stand-alone packages for {{ site.data.var.ce }} and {{ site.data.var.ee }} projects. We recommend using the Magento Quality Patches package for non-Cloud projects.

When you deploy changes to the remote environment, `{{site.data.var.ct}}` uses `magento/quality-patches` and {{ site.data.var.mcp-package }} to check for pending patches and applies them automatically in the following order:

1. Apply all required Magento patches included in the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package.
1. Apply selected optional Magento patches included in the Magento Quality Patches package.
1. Apply custom patches in the `/m2-hotfixes` directory in alphabetical order by patch name.

{:.bs-callout-info}

> When you update `{{ site.data.var.ct }}` or the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package, the latest required patches are applied the next time you deploy your project, or you can deploy them immediately using the `apply patches` CLI command and redeploying your Cloud environment . You cannot skip [required patches](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches/tree/develop/patches) during the deployment process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you update `{{ site.data.var.ct }}` or the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package, the latest required patches are applied the next time you deploy your project, or you can deploy them immediately using the `apply patches` CLI command and redeploying your Cloud environment . You cannot skip [required patches](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches/tree/develop/patches) during the deployment process.
```
```suggestion
When you update `{{ site.data.var.ct }}` or the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package, the latest required patches are applied the next time you deploy your project, or you can deploy them immediately using the `ece-patches apply` CLI command and redeploying your Cloud environment . You cannot skip [required patches](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches/tree/develop/patches) during the deployment process.
```

1. Apply required patches from Magento included in the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package.
1. Apply selected Magento quality patches included in the Magento Quality Patches package.
1. Apply optional and custom patches in the `/m2-hotfixes` directory in alphabetical order by patch name.

{:.bs-callout-info}
When you update `{{ site.data.var.ct }}` or the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package, the latest required patches are applied the next time you deploy your project, or you can deploy them immediately using the `apply patches` CLI command and redeploying your Cloud environment . You cannot skip [required patches](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches/tree/develop/patches) during the deployment process.

## Prerequisites

{% include cloud/note-upgrade.md %}

The Magento Quality Patches package is a dependency for the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} and {{site.data.var.ct}} packages. To apply the latest patches, you must have [the latest version of {{ site.data.var.ct }}]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/project/ece-tools-update.html) installed.

## View available patches and status

> You can list available patches for your version of Magento using `{{ site.data.var.ct }}`.

Author: Done

   -  `Custom`—All patches from the 'm2-hotfixes' directory.

-  **Status**:

   -  `Applied`—The patch has been applied.
   -  `Not applied`—The patch has not been applied.
   -  `N/A`—The status of the patch cannot be defined due to conflicts.

-  **Details**:

   -  `Affected components`—The list of affected Magento modules.
   -  `Required patches`—The list of required patches (dependencies).
   -  `Recommended replacement`—The patch that is a recommended replacement for a deprecated patch.

## Apply a patch in a local environment

You can apply patches manually in a local environment and test them before you deploy.

{:.procedure}
To apply individual patches in a local development environment:

1. Add the 'QUALITY_PATCHES' variable to the `.magento.env.yaml` file and list the required patches underneath.

   ```yaml
   stage:
       build:
           QUALITY_PATCHES:
               - MCTEST-1002
               - MCTEST-1003
   ```

1. From the project root, apply the patches.

   ```bash

>    php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools patch

Reviewer: patch is appropriate here:
```
> php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools list
magento/project-enterprise-edition 2.4.0

Available commands:
  build                      Builds application
  db-dump                    Creates backups of databases
  deploy                     Deploys application
  help                       Displays help for a command
  list                       Lists commands
  patch                      Applies custom patches
  post-deploy                Performs after deploy operations.
  run                        Execute scenario(s)
```

>    php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools patch

Reviewer: @meker12  Can you offer some advice about using `ece-tools patch` versus `ece-patches apply` ?

>    php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools patch

Reviewer 3: I suppose `ece-tools patch` it's a deprecated command

{% include cloud/note-upgrade.md %}

> The Magento Quality Patches package is a dependency for the {{ site.data.var.mcp }} and {{site.data.var.ct}} packages. To apply the latest patches, you must have [the latest version of {{ site.data.var.ct }}]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/project/ece-tools-update.html) installed.

Reviewer 2: So 
```suggestion
The Magento Quality Patches package is a dependency for the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} and {{site.data.var.ct}} packages. To apply the latest patches, you must have [the latest version of {{ site.data.var.ct }}]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/project/ece-tools-update.html) installed.
```

{:.procedure}
To install the Magento Quality Patches package:

1. Add the `magento/quality-patches` Composer package to your `composer.json` file.

   ```bash
   composer require magento/quality-patches
   ```

1. Update your project dependencies.

   ```bash
   composer update
   ```

> ## View individual patches

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## View installed patches
```

║                │                                                 │          │             │ Affected components:            ║
║                │                                                 │          │             │  - magento/module-cms           ║
╟────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼─────────────┼─────────────────────────────────╢
║ N/A            │ ../m2-hotfixes/MDVA_custom__2.3.5_ce.patch      │ Custom   │ N/A         │ Affected components:            ║
║                │                                                 │          │             │  - magento/module-framework     ║
╚════════════════╧═════════════════════════════════════════════════╧══════════╧═════════════╧═════════════════════════════════╝
Magento 2 Enterprise Edition, version 2.3.5.0
```

The status table contains the following types of information:

-  **Type**:

   -  `Optional`—All individual patches from the MQP package and the [Magento Cloud Patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/cloud/project/project-patch.html) package are optional for {{ site.data.var.ee }} and {{ site.data.var.ce }} installations.

>    -  Required—All individual patches from the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package are required for Cloud customers.

Reviewer: Ha! I only made a suggestion on the first one, but if you liked that suggestion then you probably need to update all the others in the list. 😊

```suggestion
   -  `Required`—All individual patches from the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} package are required for Cloud customers.
```

   -  Custom—All patches from the 'm2-hotfixes' directory.

-  **Status**:

   -  Applied—The patch has been applied.
   -  Not applied—The patch has not been applied.
   -  N/A—The status of the patch cannot be defined due to conflicts.

-  **Details**:

   -  Affected components—The list of affected Magento modules.
   -  Required patches—The list of required patches (dependencies).
   -  Recommended replacement—The patch that is a recommended replacement for a deprecated patch.

## Apply a patch in a local environment

You can apply patches manually in a local environment and test them before you deploy.

{:.procedure}
To apply patches in a local environment:

1. Add the 'QUALITY_PATCHES' variable to the `.magento.env.yaml` file and list the required patches underneath.

   ```yaml
   stage:
       build:
           QUALITY_PATCHES:
               - MCTEST-1002
               - MCTEST-1003
   ```

1. From the project root, apply the patches.

   ```bash
   php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools patch
   ```

>    Patches will be applied in the following order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `{{ site.data.var.ct }} patch` command applies patches in the following order:
```

   -  Required patches
   -  Optional individual patches
   -  Custom patches from the `/m2-hotfixes` directory

1. Clear the Magento cache.

   ```bash
   php ./bin/magento cache:clean
   ```

1. Test the patches, make any necessary changes to custom patches.

## Apply a patch in a Cloud environment

{:.bs-callout-warning}

> We strongly recommend testing all patches in a staging or development environment before deploying to production.

Reviewer: Integration, Staging, and Production environments are capitalized in Cloud. Also, it may be important to distinguish whether a test is sufficient in the Integration environment, since some services are not available.

```suggestion
We strongly recommend testing all patches in a Integration or Staging environments before deploying to the Production environment.
```

{:.procedure}
To apply patches in a Cloud environment:

1. Add the 'QUALITY_PATCHES' variable to the `.magento.env.yaml` file and list the required patches underneath.

   ```yaml
   stage:
       build:
           QUALITY_PATCHES:
               - MCTEST-1002
               - MCTEST-1003
   ```

> 1. Commit and push the updated `.magento.env.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Commit and push the updated `.magento.env.yaml` file.
```

   ```bash
   git commit -m "Apply patch"
   ```

   ```bash
   git push origin <branch-name>
   ```

## Apply a custom patch

When you deploy, `{{ site.data.var.ct }}` applies all Magento patches and any custom patches that you add to the `/m2-hotfixes` directory in the Magento project root.

{:.procedure}

> To apply and test a custom patch on a cloud environment:

Reviewer: In other places you used different capitalization.

Author: Fixed in 8b0c2def7b7de9734dda528d0139bccf6a3fabad

{% include cloud/note-upgrade.md %}

> The Magento Quality Patches package is a dependency for the {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} and {{site.data.var.ct}} packages. To apply the latest patches, you must have [the latest version of {{ site.data.var.ct }}]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/project/ece-tools-update.html) installed.

Reviewer 2: Just checked:  On Cloud, you don't have to install MQP. Both patches and mqp packages will be installed and updated by ece-tools.

Author: Removed install instructions in 08ecccf3f30e8d3ea53186c61a239c067d0b0c9b

   ```

   {:.bs-callout-info}
   Make sure to test all patches in a pre-production environment. For Magento Cloud, new branches can be created with the `magento-cloud environment:branch <branch-name>` CLI command.

## Apply patches to a non-Cloud project {#standalone}

Use the [Magento Quality Patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/guides/v2.4/comp-mgr/patching.html#mqp) package for {{ site.data.var.ce }} and {{ site.data.var.ce }} projects.

> ## Revert a patch to a local environment

Author: Done

> You can revert all optional and custom patches on a local development environment using the {{ site.data.var.ct }} CLI.  For required patches, you must revert each patch individually using the `git apply` command.

Author: Done

   ```

   {:.bs-callout-info}

>    Make sure to test all patches in a pre-production environment.  For Magento Cloud, new branches can be created with `magento-cloud environment:branch <branch-name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Make sure to test all patches in a pre-production environment. For Magento Cloud, new branches can be created with the `magento-cloud environment:branch <branch-name>` CLI command.
```

## Apply patches to a non-Cloud project {#standalone}

You can use {{ site.data.var.mcp-prod }} as a stand-alone package to apply Magento patches and hotfixes to a Magento project that is not deployed on the Cloud platform.

{:.bs-callout-tip}

> You can also use the [Magento Quality Patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/guides/v2.4/comp-mgr/patching.html#mqp) package for {{ site.data.var.ce }} and {{ site.data.var.ce }} projects. We recommend using the Magento Quality Patches package for non-Cloud projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [Magento Quality Patches]({{ site.baseurl }}/guides/v2.4/comp-mgr/patching.html#mqp) package for {{ site.data.var.ce }} and {{ site.data.var.ce }} projects. We recommend using the Magento Quality Patches package for non-Cloud projects.
```

   ```

   {:.bs-callout-info}
   Make sure to test all patches in a pre-production environment. For Magento Cloud, new branches can be created with the `magento-cloud environment:branch <branch-name>` CLI command.

> ## Apply patches to a non-Cloud project {#standalone}

Reviewer 4: @meker12, I agree with your concern. It may look a bit out of place and contain redundant information, so it would be nice to have just a link to non-Cloud MQP documentation.

> ## Apply patches to a non-Cloud project {#standalone}

Author: Thanks @meker12 & @thiaramus. Removed procedure and kept a link to the MQP topic in 08ecccf3f30e8d3ea53186c61a239c067d0b0c9b

This command reverts all patches in the following order:

-  Reverts all applied custom patches from the /m2-hotfixes directory.
-  Reverts all applied optional individual patches.

> -  Reverts all applied required patches.

Reviewer 2: Wanted to double-check this-- when I spoke to @NadiyaS I thought she mentioned that you cannot revert the required Cloud patches using the revert command.

Reviewer 5: @meker12 This command was added as part of MQP story https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-patches/blob/develop/src/Command/Ece/Revert.php
And as I see this command revert only Cloud patches

Author: @viktym, does the command revert optional individual patches too?

Reviewer 5: Just talked to @viktym  
This command reverts all existed patches including quality too. We just need to rephrase the description of it in ece-patches.
@viktym please confirm

Author: Ok great. Thanks everyone.

Reviewer 2: Followed up with Nadiia to confirm the change. Closing this.

   You can clean the cache using the Magento Admin Cache Management.

1. Test the patches, and make any necessary changes to custom patches.

## Revert a patch to a local environment

> You can revert all applied patches on a local environment and restore the codebase to a clean state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can revert all applied patches on a local development environment and restore the codebase to a clean state.
```

   You can clean the cache using the Magento Admin Cache Management.

1. Test the patches, and make any necessary changes to custom patches.

## Revert a patch to a local environment

You can revert all applied patches on a local development environment and restore the codebase to a clean state.

To revert {{site.data.var.ece}} patches:

```bash
php ./vendor/bin/ece-patches revert
```

This command reverts all patches in the following order:

-  Reverts all applied custom patches from the /m2-hotfixes directory.
-  Reverts all applied Magento Quality patches.

> -  Reverts all applied Magento Cloud patches.

Reviewer: Technically, the `ece-patches` is still available in 2.4.0 with the following commands:
```
Available commands:
  apply   Applies patches (Magento Cloud only)
  help    Displays help for a command
  list    Lists commands
  revert  Reverts patches (Magento Cloud only)
  status  Shows the list of available patches and their statuses
```
